# MARC2RDA
Mapping and transformation between MARC21 and RDA-RDF
## About
This is a project of the Metadata and Cataloging Initiatives Unit of the Cataloging and Metadata Services Department at the University of Washington Libraries initiated in 2021 to create an open source, robust mapping between the MARC21 bibliographic format and RDA-RDF and a corresponding conversion tool. Authority data is out of scope for this mapping. This project builds on the work of the RDA/MARC 21 Alignment Task Force within the RSC Technical Working Group, specifically the mapping available [here.](http://www.rdaregistry.info/Maps/mapRDA2M21B.html)
## More information and resources for participants available [on the wiki](https://github.com/uwlib-cams/MARC2RDA/wiki).
## To get in touch, email Crystal Yragui at cec23@uw.edu.
# Project Roster
**-Laura Akerman, [lake44me](https://github.com/lake44me), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Laura Akerman is a Librarian and Product Manager at Emory University Libraries, where she leads and contributes to technology projects and oversight, including work on multiple discovery systems.  She has served as Chair and is currently a member of the IGELU-ELUNA Linked Open Data Community of Practice Working Group, working with vendor Ex Libris on its plans to incorporate linked data features into products, and has written and presented on linked data topics including BIBFRAME and RDA.  In the past, she led the ALA Catalog Form and Function Interest Group and ALA Library Linked Data Interest Group Tools and Resources Subgroup, and contributed to the SAC Subcommittee on FAST._
<br><br>
**-Sita Bhagwandin [SitaKB](https://github.com/SitaKB), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Sita Bhagwandin is a bibliographic metadata specialist at the KB, National Library of the Netherlands. She holds a master’s degree in Indology from the University of Utrecht. <br>
Previously she has worked as a cataloguer at the Utrecht University library for 25 years.<br>
She represents the KB, National Library of the Netherlands at the EURIG. <br>
Her interest is RDA implemented as linked data. She participates in different projects in the Netherlands and abroad concerning the mapping and conversion of legacy bibliographic and authority data into RDA-RDF._
<br><br>
**-Tynan Challenor [tynancuw](https://github.com/tynancuw), Mapping Contributor, Transformation Contributor**<br>
_Tynan Challenor is a second year PhD student in economics. He works as a linked metadata student specialist for UW libraries and as a consultant for the Center for Social Science Computation and Research. He works on applied microeconomics and is interested in computational methods in research and science._ 
<br><br>
**-Doreen Chen [dchen077](https://github.com/dchen077), Mapping Contributor, Transformation Contributor**<br>
_Doreen Chen (she/her/hers) is a second-year residential student currently pursuing her Master of Library and Information Science degree at the University of Washington. She works as a Linked Data Metadata Student Specialist at the University of Washington Libraries and contributes to MARC2RDA among other projects. Her academic interests include open data, data curation, and metadata management._
<br><br>
**-Gordon Dunsire [GordonDunsire](https://github.com/GordonDunsire), Metadata Consultant, LRM/RDA/RDF**<br>
_Gordon Dunsire is an independent consultant who lives in Edinburgh, Scotland. He was formerly Head of the Centre for Digital Library Research at the University of Strathclyde. He has been a member of various IFLA review groups and sections concerned with cataloguing and metadata standards, and is a recipient of an IFLA Medal for his work with linked open data. He is a former Chair of the RDA Steering Committee and the RSC Technical Working Group. He is co-author of "Bibliographic information organization in the semantic web"._ 
<br><br>
**-Erin Grant [ErinGrant](https://github.com/ErinMGrant), Project Supervisor**<br>
_Erin Grant is the Head of Cataloging and Metadata Services at the University of Washington Libraries in Seattle. She supervises the MARC to RDA Project._
<br><br>
**-Deborah Fritz [tmqdeborah](https://github.com/tmqdeborah), Mapping Consultant, Aggregates/RDA/MARC21**<br>
_Deborah Fritz is a semi-retired cataloging trainer who lives in Florida. She was formerly the president of TMQ Inc., a small company that provided training and software for catalogers. She is the co-author of "MARC21 for everyone", author of "Cataloging with AACR2 & MARC21", and co-developer of MARC Report, MARC Review, and MARC Global (quality control and global editing tools for MARC records), and RIMMF (a tool for creating and editing data compliant with RDA) all of which are now available free of charge. She was the former Chair of the RSC Aggregates Working Group and is currently a member of the RSC Technical Working Group._
<br><br>
**-Cate Gerhart [CatalogerCate](https://github.com/CatalogerCate), Mapping Consultant, MARC21**<br>
_Cate Gerhart is the Head of the Monographic Service Unit in the University of Washington Libraries. In addition to supervising both classified staff and librarians, Cate is the music cataloger for the Libraries.  Presently, Cate is active in a wide range of groups outside the UW including chairing the Library of Congress MARC Advisory Committee (2020- ) and serving in a number of capacities on the Career Development Standing Committee of the Music Library Association.  In the past Cate has had a number of leadership roles in OLAC, Cataloger’s Network and in the Pacific Northwest Chapter of the Music Library Association.   Cate served for 14 years on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Map and Geography Libraries and was the editor for the Music Cataloging Bulletin (a monthly publication) for 5 years. Cate will be celebrating her 40th year of being a librarian this coming year._
<br><br>
**-Sara Hruska [sarahruska](https://github.com/sarahruska), Mapping Contributor, Student Consultant**<br>
_Sara Hruska (she/her/hers) is a third-year online student pursuing her Master of Library and Information Science degree at the University of Washington. She works as a Linked Data Metadata Student Specialist at the University of Washington Libraries, contributing to mapping MARC21 to RDA. Her academic focus includes knowledge organization, metadata management, and information architecture. She's interested in the relationships between people, information, and technology and designing their interactions._
<br><br>
**-Ebe Kartus [corialanus](https://github.com/corialanus), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Ebe Kartus is currently the Team Leader, Serials Cataloguing Team at the National Library of New Zealand which she joined at the beginning of 2023. Previously she has worked in a number of different Library environments in Australia. She is a past Chair of ACOC and current member of ORDAC. She is a past member of the RSC as the ORDAC representative and the Wider Community Engagement Officer._
<br><br>
**-Jian Lee [JianPLee](https://github.com/JianPLee), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Jian Lee (she/her/hers) is a Chinese Cataloging and Metadata Librarian at the University of Washington Libraries. Jian catalogs mostly Chinese print monographs. Outside of her cataloging duties, Jian participates in linked data projects, such as mapping RDA to BIBFRAME and mapping MARC to RDA/LRM/RDF. Jian is also an active member of Council on East Asian Libraries (CEAL). She’s a member of the Committee on Technical Processing and the CEAL Membership Committee._
<br><br>
**-Junghae Lee [junghaelee](https://github.com/junghaelee), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Junghae Lee is an Electronic Resources Metadata Librarian and Co-Interim Head of the Metadata and Cataloging Initiatives Unit at the University of Washington Libraries. She completed a C.A.S. in Library and Information Science from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign and holds an M.L.S. in Library and Information Science from Indiana University, Bloomington. Her current research interests include metadata quality, cataloging and discovery, and linked data implementation._ <br><br>
**-Cypress Payne [cspayne](https://github.com/cspayne), Lead Conversion Contributor, Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Cypress Payne (she/her/hers) is currently a second-year residential Master of Library and Information Science student at University of Washington-Seattle and holds a bachelor's degree in Computer Science. She works as a Library Linked Data Metadata Student Specialist at the University of Washington Libraries, contributing to mapping MARC21 to RDA among other linked data projects including the RDA/RDF metadata application profiles and the University of Washington Libraries Semantic Web Data._
<br><br>
**-Adam Schiff [AdamSchiff](https://github.com/AdamSchiff), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Adam L. Schiff is Principal Cataloger at the University of Washington Libraries (UWL), in Seattle, USA. He served as a lead advisor for the UWL’s participation in the Program for Cooperative Cataloging’s (PCC) Wikidata Pilot Project. Adam has been a member of the PCC Standing Committee on Standards, and served on a number of PCC task groups, including the Task Group on Linked Data Best Practices, the Task Group on URIs in MARC, the Linked Data Advisory Committee/Identity Management Advisory Committee URIs Guidance Subgroup, and coordinator of the UW Libraries’ participation in the PCC URIs in MARC Pilot Project. He is currently a consultant on Wikidata for the Task Group on Linked Data Training. He is one of two American Library Association representatives on the North American RDA Committee, and a former member of the Core Subject Analysis Committee, and the MARC Advisory Committee. Adam has an A.B. in biology from Cornell University, and an M.L.I.S. from the University of California, Berkeley._
<br><br>
**-Pengyan Sun [pennylenger](https://github.com/pennylenger), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Pengyan Sun (she/her/hers) is currently a second-year residential Master of Library and Information Science student at University of Washington-Seattle. She works as a Library Linked Data Metadata Student Specialist at the University of Washington Libraries, contributing to mapping MARC21 to RDA. Pengyan is also interested in Chinese Cataloging and Metadata._ <br><br>
**-Crystal Yragui [CECSpecialistI](https://github.com/CECSpecialistI), Mapping Contributor, Project Manager**<br>
_Crystal Yragui (she/her/hers) is a Metadata Librarian and Interim Co-Head of the Metadata and Cataloging Initiatives Unit at the University of Washington Libraries. Crystal's work focuses on linked data, identity management, cataloging in MARC and non-MARC formats, and MARС and non-MARC metadata management. She serves as a co-chair of the PCC Identity Management Advisory Committee (IMAC) and the ALA Core MARC Formats Transition Interest Group. She earned an M.S. in Library and Information Science from the University of Washington in 2014._ <br><br>
**-Sofia Zapounidou [szapoun](https://github.com/szapoun), Mapping Contributor**<br>
_Dr. Sofia Zapounidou is a metadata specialist at the National Library of Greece. She holds a bachelor from the Department of Archives, Library Science and Museology of the Ionian University, and a master’s degree in Information Systems from the University of Macedonia. Her PhD, awarded in 2020 from the Ionian University, focuses on the semantic interoperability between bibliographic conceptual models. She is an elected member of the IFLA Cataloguing Section (2021-2025), and of the Bibliographic Conceptual Models Review Group (2023-2027). She collaborates with different research groups in Greece and abroad with main focus on the preparation, representation and conversion of bibliographic data into linked data._
## Past contributors
**-Alice Chung [cwarc](https://github.com/cwarc), Mapping Contributor**<br>
<br><br>
**-Theo Gerontakos [gerontakos](https://github.com/gerontakos), Mapping Contributor, Conversion Contributor, Project Supervisor**<br>
_Theo Gerontakos has been a Metadata Librarian since 2001 and was the Head of the Metadata and Cataloging Initiatives Unit at the University of Washington (UW) Libraries in Seattle, Washington, USA until March 2024. He led the UW cohort contribution to the LD4P2 project from 2018-2020. He was the Chair of the UW Metadata Implementation Group from 2004-2021 and led Linked Data Team from 2013 to 2024. He led several UW study groups from 2010-2019 on XSLT, XQuery, and SPARQL. He is a former Chair of the ALCTS/LITA Linked Library Data Interest group (2012-2014). He is currently a metadata Librarian at the Library of Congress._
<br><br>
**-Ying-Hsiang Huang [hinxcode](https://github.com/hinxcode), Mapping Contributor, Transformation Contributor**<br>
_Ying-Hsiang Huang (he/him) is currently a second-year residential Master of Library and Information Science student at the University of Washington-Seattle. He works as a Library Linked Data Metadata Student Specialist at the University of Washington Libraries, where he contributes to mapping MARC21 to RDA among other linked data projects. With a robust background in software engineering, he is committed to enhancing library services through digital transformation initiatives._
<br><br>
**-Melissa Morgan [mcm104](https://github.com/mcm104), Mapping Contributor, Metadata Consultant**<br>
_Melissa Morgan (she/her) is the Cataloging & Metadata Specialist at Pacific Lutheran University. She holds an MLIS from the University of Washington (2022), and was formerly a Linked Data Specialist and Library Technician at the University of Washington Libraries from 2019 to 2022. During her time at UW, she participated in several linked data projects, including LD4P2, an RDA-to-BIBFRAME mapping, and the creation of RDA/RDF metadata application profiles. Her current work at PLU primarily involves cataloging in MARC and metadata clean-up._ <br><br>
**-Zhuo Pan [pan-zhuo](https://github.com/pan-zhuo), Mapping Contributor, Conversion Contributor**<br>
_Zhuo Pan is currently a Resource Description Resident Librarian at Duke University Libraries. He holds a Master of Library and Information Science from the University of Washington and a Bachelor's degree in Library Science from Wuhan University. As a Library Data Specialist at the University of Washington Libraries from February 2022 until his graduation, Zhuo contributed to mapping MARC21 to RDA and converting MARC metadata to linked open data formats. For his MLIS capstone project, he designed RDA application profiles for print monographs that enable native RDA cataloging in the Sinopia Linked Data Editor._ 
<br><br>
**-Benjamin Riesenberg [briesenberg07](https://github.com/briesenberg07), Metadata Consultant, General**<br>
_Benjamin Riesenberg (they/them) is a Metadata Librarian at the University of Washington Libraries and former co-chair of the ALA Core Linked Data Interest Group (2020-2022). They contribute to linked data and other metadata initiatives including authoring and testing RDA/RDF metadata application profiles, conversion of MARC data for use in the GeoBlacklight discovery environment, and metadata creation and remediation in multiple digital collections and digital scholarship platforms at the University of Washington._



